# OpenAPI Specification

#### Version 3.0

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

The OpenAPI Specification is licensed under [The Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Introduction

The OpenAPI Specification is a project used to describe and document RESTful APIs.

The OpenAPI Specification defines a set of files required to describe such an API.
These files can then be used by the Swagger-UI project to display the API and Swagger-Codegen to generate clients in various languages.
Additional utilities can also take advantage of the resulting files, such as testing tools.

## Revision History

Version | Date | Notes
--- | --- | ---
2.0 | 2015-12-31 | Donation of Swagger 2.0 to the Open API Initiative
2.0 | 2014-09-08 | Release of Swagger 2.0
1.2 | 2014-03-14 | Initial release of the formal document.
1.1 | 2012-08-22 | Release of Swagger 1.1
1.0 | 2011-08-10 | First release of the Swagger Specification

## Definitions

##### <a name="pathTemplating"></a>Path Templating
Path templating refers to the usage of curly braces ({}) to mark a section of a URL path as replaceable using path parameters.

##### <a name="mediaTypes"></a>Media Types
Media type definitions are spread across several resources.
The media type definitions should be in compliance with [RFC 6838](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6838).

Some examples of possible media type definitions:
```
  text/plain; charset=utf-8
  application/json
  application/vnd.github+json
  application/vnd.github.v3+json
  application/vnd.github.v3.raw+json
  application/vnd.github.v3.text+json
  application/vnd.github.v3.html+json
  application/vnd.github.v3.full+json
  application/vnd.github.v3.diff
  application/vnd.github.v3.patch
```
##### <a name="httpCodes"></a>HTTP Status Codes
The HTTP Status Codes are used to indicate the status of the executed operation. The available status codes are initially defined by [RFC 7231](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6) and registered status codes are listed in the [IANA Status Code Registry](http://www.iana.org/assignments/http-status-codes/http-status-codes.xhtml).

## Specification

### Format

The files describing the RESTful API in accordance with the OpenAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to the JSON standards.
YAML, being a superset of JSON, can be used as well to represent a OAS (OpenAPI Specification) file. 

For example, if a field is said to have an array value, the JSON array representation will be used:

```js
{
   "field" : [...]
}
```

While the API is described using JSON it does not impose a JSON input/output to the API itself.

All field names in the specification are **case sensitive**.

The schema exposes two types of fields.
Fixed fields, which have a declared name, and Patterned fields, which declare a regex pattern for the field name.
Patterned fields can have multiple occurrences as long as each has a unique name. 

In order to preserve the ability to round-trip between YAML and JSON formats, YAML version [1.2](http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html) is recommended along with some additional constraints:

- Tags MUST be limited to those allowed by the [JSON Schema ruleset](http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2803231)
- Keys used in YAML maps MUST be limited to a scalar string, as defined by the YAML Failsafe schema ruleset

### File Structure

The OAS representation of the API is made of a single file.
However, parts of the definitions can be split into separate files, at the discretion of the user.
This is applicable for `$ref` fields in the specification as follows from the [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org) definitions.

By convention, the OpenAPI Specification (OAS) file is named `openapi.json` or `openapi.yaml`.

### Data Types

Primitive data types in the OAS are based on the types supported by the [JSON-Schema Draft 4](http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-core.html#anchor8).
Models are described using the [Schema Object](#schemaObject) which is a subset of JSON Schema Draft 4.

An additional primitive data type `"file"` is used by the [Parameter Object](#parameterObject) and the [Response Object](#responseObject) to set the parameter type or the response as being a file.

<a name="dataTypeFormat"></a>Primitives have an optional modifier property `format`.
OAS uses several known formats to more finely define the data type being used.
However, the `format` property is an open `string`-valued property, and can have any value to support documentation needs.
Formats such as `"email"`, `"uuid"`, etc., can be used even though they are not defined by this specification.
Types that are not accompanied by a `format` property follow their definition from the JSON Schema (except for `file` type which is defined above).
The formats defined by the OAS are:


Common Name | [`type`](#dataTypeType) | [`format`](#dataTypeFormat) | Comments
----------- | ------ | -------- | --------
integer | `integer` | `int32` | signed 32 bits
long | `integer` | `int64` | signed 64 bits
float | `number` | `float` | |
double | `number` | `double` | |
string | `string` | | |
byte | `string` | `byte` | base64 encoded characters
binary | `string` | `binary` | any sequence of octets
boolean | `boolean` | | |
date | `string` | `date` | As defined by `full-date` - [RFC3339](http://xml2rfc.ietf.org/public/rfc/html/rfc3339.html#anchor14)
dateTime | `string` | `date-time` | As defined by `date-time` - [RFC3339](http://xml2rfc.ietf.org/public/rfc/html/rfc3339.html#anchor14)
password | `string` | `password` | Used to hint UIs the input needs to be obscured.

### Schema

#### <a name="oasObject"></a>OpenAPI Object

This is the root document object for the API specification.
It combines what previously was the Resource Listing and API Declaration (version 1.2 and earlier) together into one document.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="oasVersion"></a>openapi | `string` | **Required.** Specifies the OpenAPI Specification version being used. It can be used by tooling Specifications and clients to interpret the version. The structure shall be `major`.`minor`.`patch`, where `patch` versions _must_ be compatible with the existing `major`.`minor` tooling. Typically patch versions will be introduced to address errors in the documentation, and tooling should typically be compatible with the corresponding `major`.`minor` (3.0.*). Patch versions will correspond to patches of this document.
<a name="oasInfo"></a>info | [Info Object](#infoObject) | **Required.** Provides metadata about the API. The metadata can be used by the clients if needed.
<a name="oasHosts"></a>hosts | [Hosts Object](#hostsObject) | An array of Host objects which provide `scheme`, `host`, `port`, and `basePath` in an associative manner.
<a name="oasConsumes"></a>consumes | [`string`] | A list of media types the APIs can consume. This is global to all APIs but can be overridden on specific API calls. Value MUST be as described under [Media Types](#mediaTypes).
<a name="oasProduces"></a>produces | [`string`] | A list of media types the APIs can produce. This is global to all APIs but can be overridden on specific API calls. Value MUST be as described under [Media Types](#mediaTypes).
<a name="oasResponses"></a>responses | [Responses]
<a name="oasPaths"></a>paths | [Paths Object](#pathsObject) | **Required.** The available paths and operations for the API.
<a name="oasSchemas"></a>components | [Components Object](#componentsObject) | An element to hold various schemas for the specification.
<a name="oasSecurity"></a>security | [[Security Requirement Object](#securityRequirementObject)] | A declaration of which security schemes are applied for the API as a whole. The list of values describes alternative security schemes that can be used (that is, there is a logical OR between the security requirements). Individual operations can override this definition.
<a name="oasTags"></a>tags | [[Tag Object](#tagObject)] | A list of tags used by the specification with additional metadata. The order of the tags can be used to reflect on their order by the parsing tools. Not all tags that are used by the [Operation Object](#operationObject) must be declared. The tags that are not declared may be organized randomly or based on the tools' logic. Each tag name in the list MUST be unique.
<a name="oasExternalDocs"></a>externalDocs | [External Documentation Object](#externalDocumentationObject) | Additional external documentation.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="oasExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OAS Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

#### <a name="infoObject"></a>Info Object

The object provides metadata about the API.
The metadata can be used by the clients if needed, and can be presented in the Swagger-UI for convenience.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="infoTitle"></a>title | `string` | **Required.** The title of the application.
<a name="infoDescription"></a>description | `string` | A short description of the application. [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="infoTermsOfService"></a>termsOfService | `string` | A URL to the Terms of Service for the API.
<a name="infoContact"></a>contact | [Contact Object](#contactObject) | The contact information for the exposed API.
<a name="infoLicense"></a>license | [License Object](#licenseObject) | The license information for the exposed API.
<a name="infoVersion"></a>version | `string` | **Required** Provides the version of the application API (not to be confused with the specification version).

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="infoExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Info Object Example:

```js
{
  "title": "Swagger Sample App",
  "description": "This is a sample server Petstore server.",
  "termsOfService": "http://swagger.io/terms/",
  "contact": {
    "name": "API Support",
    "url": "http://www.swagger.io/support",
    "email": "support@swagger.io"
  },
  "license": {
    "name": "Apache 2.0",
    "url": "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html"
  },
  "version": "1.0.1"
}
```

```yaml
title: Swagger Sample App
description: This is a sample server Petstore server.
termsOfService: http://swagger.io/terms/
contact:
  name: API Support
  url: http://www.swagger.io/support
  email: support@swagger.io
license:
  name: Apache 2.0
  url: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
version: 1.0.1
```

#### <a name="hostObject"></a>Host Object

An object representing a Host.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="oasHost"></a>host | `string` | The host (name or ip) serving the API. This MUST be the host only and does not include the scheme nor sub-paths. It MAY include a port. If the `host` is not included, the host serving the documentation is to be used (including the port). The `host` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating).
<a name="oasBasePath"></a>basePath | `string` | The base path on which the API is served, which is relative to the [`host`](#oasHost). If it is not included, the API is served directly under the `host`. The value MUST start with a leading slash (`/`). The `basePath` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating). 
<a name="oasScheme"></a>scheme | `string` | The transfer protocol of the API. Values MUST be from the list: `"http"`, `"https"`, `"ws"`, `"wss"`. If the `scheme` is not included, the default scheme to be used is the one used to access the OpenAPI definition itself.

#### <a name="contactObject"></a>Contact Object

Contact information for the exposed API.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="contactName"></a>name | `string` | The identifying name of the contact person/organization.
<a name="contactUrl"></a>url | `string` | The URL pointing to the contact information. MUST be in the format of a URL.
<a name="contactEmail"></a>email | `string` | The email address of the contact person/organization. MUST be in the format of an email address.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="contactExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Contact Object Example:

```js
{
  "name": "API Support",
  "url": "http://www.swagger.io/support",
  "email": "support@swagger.io"
}
```

```yaml
name: API Support
url: http://www.swagger.io/support
email: support@swagger.io
```

#### <a name="licenseObject"></a>License Object

License information for the exposed API.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="licenseName"></a>name | `string` | **Required.** The license name used for the API.
<a name="licenseUrl"></a>url | `string` | A URL to the license used for the API. MUST be in the format of a URL.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="licenseExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### License Object Example:

```js
{
  "name": "Apache 2.0",
  "url": "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html"
}
```

```yaml
name: Apache 2.0
url: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
```

#### <a name="componentsObject"></a>Components Object

Holds a set of schemas for different aspects of the OAS.
The intention is to put reusable components into a single location, allowing reuse from this and other OAS documents.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="definitionsObject"></a> | [Definitions Object](#definitionsObject) | A hash containing payload definitions for the specification.
<a name="responsesDefinitionsObject"></a> | Responses Definitions Object | Reusable responses objects.
<a name="parametersDefinitionsObject"></a> | [Parameters Definitions Object](#parametersDefinitionsObject) | An object to hold parameters to be reused across operations. Parameter definitions can be referenced to the ones defined here.
<a name="responseHeadersDefinitionsObject"></a> | [Response Headers Definitions Object](#responseHeadersDefinitionsObject) | Response headers to reuse across the specification.
<a name="securityDefinitionsObject"></a> | [Security Definitions Object](#securityDefinitionsObject) | Security definitions to reuse across the specification.


#### <a name="pathsObject"></a>Paths Object

Holds the relative paths to the individual endpoints.
The path is appended to the [`basePath`](#oasBasePath) in order to construct the full URL.
The Paths may be empty, due to [ACL constraints](#securityFiltering).

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="pathsPath"></a>/{path} | [Path Item Object](#pathItemObject) | A relative path to an individual endpoint. The field name MUST begin with a slash. The path is appended to the [`basePath`](#oasBasePath) in order to construct the full URL. [Path templating](#pathTemplating) is allowed.
<a name="pathsExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details. 

##### Paths Object Example

```js
{
  "/pets": {
    "get": {
      "description": "Returns all pets from the system that the user has access to",
      "produces": [
        "application/json"
      ],
      "responses": {
        "200": {
          "description": "A list of pets.",
          "schema": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": {
              "$ref": "#/definitions/pet"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
/pets:
  get:
    description: Returns all pets from the system that the user has access to
    produces:
    - application/json
    responses:
      '200':
        description: A list of pets.
        schema:
          type: array
          items:
            $ref: '#/definitions/pet'
```

#### <a name="pathItemObject"></a>Path Item Object

Describes the operations available on a single path.
A Path Item may be empty, due to [ACL constraints](#securityFiltering).
The path itself is still exposed to the documentation viewer but they will not know which operations and parameters are available.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="pathItemRef"></a>$ref | `string` | Allows for an external definition of this path item. The referenced structure MUST be in the format of a [Path Item Object](#pathItemObject). If there are conflicts between the referenced definition and this Path Item's definition, the behavior is *undefined*.
<a name="pathItemSummary"></a>summary | An optional, string summary, intended to apply to all operations in this path.
<a name="pathItemDescription"></a>description | An optional, string description, intended to apply to all operations in this path.
<a name="pathItemGet"></a>get | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a GET operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemPut"></a>put | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a PUT operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemPost"></a>post | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a POST operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemDelete"></a>delete | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a DELETE operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemOptions"></a>options | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a OPTIONS operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemHead"></a>head | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a HEAD operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemPatch"></a>patch | [Operation Object](#operationObject) | A definition of a PATCH operation on this path.
<a name="pathItemHost"></a>host | `string` | The host (name or ip) serving the path. This optional value will override the top-level [host](#oasHost) if present. This MUST be the host only and does not include the scheme nor sub-paths. It MAY include a port. If the `host` is not included, the host serving the documentation is to be used (including the port). The `host` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating).
<a name="pathItemBasePath"></a>basePath | `string` | The base path on which the API is served, which is relative to the [`host`](#pathItemHost). This optional value will override the top-level [basePath](#oasBasePath) if present. If it is not included, the API is served directly under the `host`. The value MUST start with a leading slash (`/`). The `basePath` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating). 
<a name="pathItemSchemes"></a>schemes | [`string`] | The transfer protocol of the API. Values MUST be from the list: `"http"`, `"https"`, `"ws"`, `"wss"`. This optional value will override the top-level [schemes](#oasSchemes) if present. If the `schemes` is not included, the default scheme to be used is the one used to access the OpenAPI definition itself.
<a name="pathItemParameters"></a>parameters | [[Parameter Object](#parameterObject) <span>&#124;</span> [Reference Object](#referenceObject)] | A list of parameters that are applicable for all the operations described under this path. These parameters can be overridden at the operation level, but cannot be removed there. The list MUST NOT include duplicated parameters. A unique parameter is defined by a combination of a [name](#parameterName) and [location](#parameterIn). The list can use the [Reference Object](#referenceObject) to link to parameters that are defined at the [OpenAPI Object's parameters](#oasParameters). 

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="pathItemExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details. 

##### Path Item Object Example

```js
{
  "get": {
    "description": "Returns pets based on ID",
    "summary": "Find pets by ID",
    "operationId": "getPetsById",
    "produces": [
      "application/json",
      "text/html"
    ],
    "responses": {
      "200": {
        "description": "pet response",
        "schema": {
          "type": "array",
          "items": {
            "$ref": "#/definitions/Pet"
          }
        }
      },
      "default": {
        "description": "error payload",
        "schema": {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/ErrorModel"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "parameters": [
    {
      "name": "id",
      "in": "path",
      "description": "ID of pet to use",
      "required": true,
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "type": "string"
      },
      "collectionFormat": "csv"
    }
  ]
}
```

```yaml
get:
  description: Returns pets based on ID
  summary: Find pets by ID
  operationId: getPetsById
  produces:
  - application/json
  - text/html
  responses:
    '200':
      description: pet response
      schema:
        type: array
        items:
          $ref: '#/definitions/Pet'
    default:
      description: error payload
      schema:
        $ref: '#/definitions/ErrorModel'
parameters:
- name: id
  in: path
  description: ID of pet to use
  required: true
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
  collectionFormat: csv
```

#### <a name="operationObject"></a>Operation Object

Describes a single API operation on a path.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="operationTags"></a>tags | [`string`] | A list of tags for API documentation control. Tags can be used for logical grouping of operations by resources or any other qualifier.
<a name="operationSummary"></a>summary | `string` | A short summary of what the operation does. For maximum readability in the swagger-ui, this field SHOULD be less than 120 characters.
<a name="operationDescription"></a>description | `string` | A verbose explanation of the operation behavior. [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="operationExternalDocs"></a>externalDocs | [External Documentation Object](#externalDocumentationObject) | Additional external documentation for this operation.
<a name="operationId"></a>operationId | `string` | Unique string used to identify the operation. The id MUST be unique among all operations described in the API. Tools and libraries MAY use the operationId to uniquely identify an operation, therefore, it is recommended to follow common programming naming conventions.
<a name="operationConsumes"></a>consumes | [`string`] | A list of media types the operation can consume. This overrides the [`consumes`](#oasConsumes) definition at the OpenAPI Object. An empty value MAY be used to clear the global definition. Value MUST be as described under [Media Types](#mediaTypes).
<a name="operationProduces"></a>produces | [`string`] | A list of media types the operation can produce. This overrides the [`produces`](#oasProduces) definition at the OpenAPI Object. An empty value MAY be used to clear the global definition. Value MUST be as described under [Media Types](#mediaTypes).
<a name="operationParameters"></a>parameters | [[Parameter Object](#parameterObject) <span>&#124;</span> [Reference Object](#referenceObject)] | A list of parameters that are applicable for this operation. If a parameter is already defined at the [Path Item](#pathItemParameters), the new definition will override it, but can never remove it. The list MUST NOT include duplicated parameters. A unique parameter is defined by a combination of a [name](#parameterName) and [location](#parameterIn). The list can use the [Reference Object](#referenceObject) to link to parameters that are defined at the [OpenAPI Object's parameters](#oasParameters).
<a name="operationRequestBody"></a>requestBody | [[Request Body Object](#requestBodyObject) <span>&#124;</span> [Reference Object](#referenceObject)] | The request body applicable for this operation. 
<a name="operationResponses"></a>responses | [Responses Object](#responsesObject) | **Required.** The list of possible responses as they are returned from executing this operation.
<a name="operationSchemes"></a>schemes | [`string`] | The transfer protocol for the operation. Values MUST be from the list: `"http"`, `"https"`, `"ws"`, `"wss"`. The value overrides the OpenAPI Object [`schemes`](#oasSchemes) definition. 
<a name="operationDeprecated"></a>deprecated | `boolean` | Declares this operation to be deprecated. Usage of the declared operation should be refrained. Default value is `false`.
<a name="operationSecurity"></a>security | [[Security Requirement Object](#securityRequirementObject)] | A declaration of which security schemes are applied for this operation. The list of values describes alternative security schemes that can be used (that is, there is a logical OR between the security requirements). This definition overrides any declared top-level [`security`](#oasSecurity). To remove a top-level security declaration, an empty array can be used.
<a name="operationHost"></a>host | `string` | The host (name or ip) serving the path. This optional value will override the top-level [host](#oasHost) or path item-level [host](#pathItemHost). if present. This MUST be the host only and does not include the scheme nor sub-paths. It MAY include a port. If the `host` is not included, the host serving the documentation is to be used (including the port). The `host` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating).
<a name="operationBasePath"></a>basePath | `string` | The base path on which the API is served, which is relative to the [`host`](#pathItemHost). This optional value will override the top-level [basePath](#oasBasePath) or path item-level [basePath](#oasPathItemBasePath) if present. If it is not included, the API is served directly under the `host`. The value MUST start with a leading slash (`/`). The `basePath` does not support [path templating](#pathTemplating). 
<a name="operationSchemes"></a>schemes | [`string`] | The transfer protocol of the API. Values MUST be from the list: `"http"`, `"https"`, `"ws"`, `"wss"`. This optional value will override the top-level [schemes](#oasSchemes) or path-item level [schemes](#pathItemSchemes) if present. If the `schemes` is not included, the default scheme to be used is the one used to access the OpenAPI definition itself.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="operationExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Operation Object Example

```js
{
  "tags": [
    "pet"
  ],
  "summary": "Updates a pet in the store with form data",
  "description": "",
  "operationId": "updatePetWithForm",
  "consumes": [
    "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
  ],
  "produces": [
    "application/json",
    "application/xml"
  ],
  "parameters": [
    {
      "name": "petId",
      "in": "path",
      "description": "ID of pet that needs to be updated",
      "required": true,
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "name",
      "in": "formData",
      "description": "Updated name of the pet",
      "required": false,
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "status",
      "in": "formData",
      "description": "Updated status of the pet",
      "required": false,
      "type": "string"
    }
  ],
  "responses": {
    "200": {
      "description": "Pet updated."
    },
    "405": {
      "description": "Invalid input"
    }
  },
  "security": [
    {
      "petstore_auth": [
        "write:pets",
        "read:pets"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

```yaml
tags:
- pet
summary: Updates a pet in the store with form data
description: ""
operationId: updatePetWithForm
consumes:
- application/x-www-form-urlencoded
produces:
- application/json
- application/xml
parameters:
- name: petId
  in: path
  description: ID of pet that needs to be updated
  required: true
  type: string
- name: name
  in: formData
  description: Updated name of the pet
  required: false
  type: string
- name: status
  in: formData
  description: Updated status of the pet
  required: false
  type: string
responses:
  '200':
    description: Pet updated.
  '405':
    description: Invalid input
security:
- petstore_auth:
  - write:pets
  - read:pets
```


#### <a name="externalDocumentationObject"></a>External Documentation Object

Allows referencing an external resource for extended documentation.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="externalDocDescription"></a>description | `string` | A short description of the target documentation. [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="externalDocUrl"></a>url | `string` | **Required.** The URL for the target documentation. Value MUST be in the format of a URL.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="externalDocExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### External Documentation Object Example

```js
{
  "description": "Find more info here",
  "url": "https://swagger.io"
}
```

```yaml
description: Find more info here
url: https://swagger.io
```

#### <a name="parameterObject"></a>Parameter Object

Describes a single operation parameter.

A unique parameter is defined by a combination of a [name](#parameterName) and [location](#parameterIn).

There are five possible parameter types.
* Path - Used together with [Path Templating](#pathTemplating), where the parameter value is actually part of the operation's URL. This does not include the host or base path of the API. For example, in `/items/{itemId}`, the path parameter is `itemId`.
* Query - Parameters that are appended to the URL. For example, in `/items?id=###`, the query parameter is `id`.
* Header - Custom headers that are expected as part of the request.
* Form - Used to describe the payload of an HTTP request when either `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, `multipart/form-data` or both are used as the content type of the request (in the OpenAPI Specification's definition, the [`consumes`](#operationConsumes) property of an operation). This is the only parameter type that can be used to send files, thus supporting the `file` type. Since form parameters are sent in the payload, they cannot be declared together with a body parameter for the same operation. Form parameters have a different format based on the content-type used (for further details, consult http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.13.4):
  * `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` - Similar to the format of Query parameters but as a payload. For example, `foo=1&bar=swagger` - both `foo` and `bar` are form parameters. This is normally used for simple parameters that are being transferred.
  * `multipart/form-data` - each parameter takes a section in the payload with an internal header. For example, for the header `Content-Disposition: form-data; name="submit-name"` the name of the parameter is `submit-name`. This type of form parameters is more commonly used for file transfers.

* Cookie - Used to pass a specific cookie value to the API.


For complex parameter schemas, a serialization strategy is required.
For all types, a serialization strategy must be declared.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="parameterName"></a>name | `string` | **Required.** The name of the parameter. Parameter names are *case sensitive*. <ul><li>If [`in`](#parameterIn) is `"path"`, the `name` field MUST correspond to the associated path segment from the [path](#pathsPath) field in the [Paths Object](#pathsObject). See [Path Templating](#pathTemplating) for further information.<li>For all other cases, the `name` corresponds to the parameter name used based on the [`in`](#parameterIn) property.</ul>
<a name="parameterIn"></a>in | `string` | **Required.** The location of the parameter. Possible values are "query", "header", "path", "formData" or "cookie".
<a name="parameterDescription"></a>description | `string` | A brief description of the parameter. This could contain examples of use.  [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="parameterRequired"></a>required | `boolean` | Determines whether this parameter is mandatory. If the parameter is [`in`](#parameterIn) "path", this property is **required** and its value MUST be `true`. Otherwise, the property MAY be included and its default value is `false`. 
<a name="parameterDeprecated"></a> deprecated | `boolean` | Specifies that a parameter is deprecated and should be transitioned out of usage.
<a name="parameterSchema"></a>schema | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) | The schema defining the type used for the parameter.


##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="parameterExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.


##### Parameter Object Examples

A header parameter with an array of 64 bit integer numbers:

```js
{
  "name": "token",
  "in": "header",
  "description": "token to be passed as a header",
  "required": true,
  "schema": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "integer",
      "format": "int64"
    }
  },
  "collectionFormat": "csv"
}
```

```yaml
name: token
in: header
description: token to be passed as a header
required: true
schema:
  type: array
  items:
    type: integer
    format: int64
  collectionFormat: csv
```

A path parameter of a string value:
```js
{
  "name": "username",
  "in": "path",
  "description": "username to fetch",
  "required": true,
  "schema": {
    "type": "string"
  }
}
```

```yaml
name: username
in: path
description: username to fetch
required: true
schema:
  type: string
```

An optional query parameter of a string value, allowing multiple values by repeating the query parameter:
```js
{
  "name": "id",
  "in": "query",
  "description": "ID of the object to fetch",
  "required": false,
  "schema": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string"
    }
  },
  "collectionFormat": "multi"
}
```

```yaml
name: id
in: query
description: ID of the object to fetch
required: false
schema:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
  collectionFormat: multi
```

A form data with file type for a file upload:
```js
{
  "name": "avatar",
  "in": "formData",
  "description": "The avatar of the user",
  "required": true,
  "schema": {
    "type": "file"
  }
}
```

```yaml
name: avatar
in: formData
description: The avatar of the user
required: true
schema:
  type: file
```

#### <a name="requestBodyObject"></a>Request Body Object

Describes a single request body.

The `Content-Type` of the request body must be specified by the `consumes` attribute, either at the [top-level](#oasConsumes) or [operation level](#operationConsumes).

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="requestBodyDescription"></a>description | `string` | A brief description of the request body. This could contain examples of use.  [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="requestBodySchema"></a>schema | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) | The schema defining the type used for the request body.
<a name="requestBodyExamples"></a>examples | [Examples Object](#examplesObject) | Examples of the request body, referenced by media type.
<a name="requestBodyRequired"></a>required | `boolean` | Determines if the request body is required in the request. Defaults to `true`.


##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="parameterExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Vendor Extensions](#vendorExtensions) for further details.


##### Request Body Examples

A request body with a referenced model definition.
```js
{
  "description": "user to add to the system",
  "schema": {
    "$ref": "#/definitions/User"
  },
  "examples": {
        "application/json": {
          "$ref": 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.json'
        'application/xml':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.xml'
        'text/plain':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.txt'
        default:
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.whatever'
}
```

```yaml
description: user to add to the system
schema:
  $ref: '#/definitions/User'
examples:
        'application/json':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar/examples/user-example.json'
        'application/xml':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar/examples/user-example.xml'
        'text/plain':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar/examples/user-example.txt'
        default:
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar/examples/user-example.whatever'
```

A body parameter that is an array of string values:
```js
{
  "description": "user to add to the system",
  "schema": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
description: user to add to the system
required: true
schema:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
```

#### <a name="itemsObject"></a>Items Object

A limited subset of JSON-Schema's items object.
It is used by parameter definitions.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="itemsType"></a>type | `string` | **Required.** The internal type of the array. The value MUST be one of `"string"`, `"number"`, `"integer"`, `"boolean"`, or `"array"`. Files and models are not allowed.
<a name="itemsFormat"></a>format | `string` | The extending format for the previously mentioned [`type`](#parameterType). See [Data Type Formats](#dataTypeFormat) for further details.
<a name="itemsItems"></a>items | [Items Object](#itemsObject) | **Required if [`type`](#itemsType) is "array".** Describes the type of items in the array.
<a name="itemsCollectionFormat"></a>collectionFormat | `string` | Determines the format of the array if type array is used. Possible values are: <ul><li>`csv` - comma separated values `foo,bar`. <li>`ssv` - space separated values `foo bar`. <li>`tsv` - tab separated values `foo\tbar`. <li>`pipes` - pipe separated values <code>foo&#124;bar</code>. </ul> Default value is `csv`.
<a name="itemsDefault"></a>default | * | Declares the value of the item that the server will use if none is provided. (Note: "default" has no meaning for required items.) See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor101. Unlike JSON Schema this value MUST conform to the defined [`type`](#itemsType) for the data type.
<a name="itemsMaximum"></a>maximum | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor17.
<a name="itemsMaximum"></a>exclusiveMaximum | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor17.
<a name="itemsMinimum"></a>minimum | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor21.
<a name="itemsExclusiveMinimum"></a>exclusiveMinimum | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor21.
<a name="itemsMaxLength"></a>maxLength | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor26.
<a name="itemsMinLength"></a>minLength | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor29.
<a name="itemsPattern"></a>pattern | `string` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor33.
<a name="itemsMaxItems"></a>maxItems | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor42.
<a name="itemsMinItems"></a>minItems | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor45.
<a name="itemsUniqueItems"></a>uniqueItems | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor49.
<a name="itemsEnum"></a>enum | [*] | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor76.
<a name="itemsMultipleOf"></a>multipleOf | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor14.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="itemsExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Items Object Examples

Items must be of type  string and have the minimum length of  2 characters:

```js
{
    "type": "string",
    "minLength": 2
}
```

```yaml
type: string
minLength: 2
```

An array of arrays, the internal array being of type integer, numbers must be between 0 and 63 (inclusive):

```js
{
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0,
        "maximum": 63
    }
}
```

```yaml
type: array
items:
  type: integer
  minimum: 0
  maximum: 63
```

#### <a name="responsesObject"></a>Responses Object

A container for the expected responses of an operation.
The container maps a HTTP response code to the expected response.
It is not expected from the documentation to necessarily cover all possible HTTP response codes, since they may not be known in advance.
However, it is expected from the documentation to cover a successful operation response and any known errors.

The `default` MAY be used as a default response object for all HTTP codes that are not covered individually by the specification.

The `Responses Object` MUST contain at least one response code, and it SHOULD be the response for a successful operation call.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="responsesDefault"></a>default | [Response Object](#responseObject) <span>&#124;</span> [Reference Object](#referenceObject) | The documentation of responses other than the ones declared for specific HTTP response codes.
It can be used to cover undeclared responses.
[Reference Object](#referenceObject) can be used to link to a response that is defined at the [OpenAPI Object's responses](#oasResponses) section.

##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="responsesCode"></a>{[HTTP Status Code](#httpCodes)} | [Response Object](#responseObject) <span>&#124;</span> [Reference Object](#referenceObject) | Any [HTTP status code](#httpCodes) can be used as the property name (one property per HTTP status code). Describes the expected response for that HTTP status code.  [Reference Object](#referenceObject) can be used to link to a response that is defined at the [OpenAPI Object's responses](#oasResponses) section. This field must quoted for compatibility between JSON and YAML (i.e. "200"), and may contain the uppercase character, `X` to designate a wildcard, such as `2XX` to represent all response codes between `[200-299]`.
<a name="responsesExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.


##### Responses Object Example

A 200 response for successful operation and a default response for others (implying an error):

```js
{
  "200": {
    "description": "a pet to be returned",
    "schema": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/Pet"
    }
  },
  "default": {
    "description": "Unexpected error",
    "schema": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/ErrorModel"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
'200':
  description: a pet to be returned
  schema:
    $ref: '#/definitions/Pet'
default:
  description: Unexpected error
  schema:
    $ref: '#/definitions/ErrorModel'
```

#### <a name="responseObject"></a>Response Object
Describes a single response from an API Operation, including design-time, static `links` to operations based on the response.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="responseDescription"></a>description | `string` | **Required.** A short description of the response. [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="responseSchema"></a>schema | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) | A definition of the response structure. It can be a primitive, an array or an object. If this field does not exist, it means no content is returned as part of the response. As an extension to the [Schema Object](#schemaObject), its root `type` value may also be `"file"`. This SHOULD be accompanied by a relevant `produces` media type.
<a name="responseHeaders"></a>headers | [Headers Object](#headersObject) | A list of headers that are sent with the response.
<a name="responseExamples"></a>examples | [Example Object](#exampleObject) | An example of the response message.
<a name="responseLinks"></a>links | [Links Object](#linksObject) | An object representing operations related to the response payload.


##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="responseExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Response Object Examples

Response of an array of a complex type:

```js
{
  "description": "A complex object array response",
  "schema": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/VeryComplexType"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
description: A complex object array response
schema:
  type: array
  items:
    $ref: '#/definitions/VeryComplexType'
```

Response with a string type:

```js
{
  "description": "A simple string response",
  "schema": {
    "type": "string"
  }
}
```

```yaml
description: A simple string response
schema:
  type: string
```

Response with headers:

```js
{
  "description": "A simple string response",
  "schema": {
    "type": "string"
  },
  "headers": {
    "X-Rate-Limit-Limit": {
      "description": "The number of allowed requests in the current period",
      "type": "integer"
    },
    "X-Rate-Limit-Remaining": {
      "description": "The number of remaining requests in the current period",
      "type": "integer"
    },
    "X-Rate-Limit-Reset": {
      "description": "The number of seconds left in the current period",
      "type": "integer"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
description: A simple string response
schema:
  type: string
headers:
  X-Rate-Limit-Limit:
    description: The number of allowed requests in the current period
    type: integer
  X-Rate-Limit-Remaining:
    description: The number of remaining requests in the current period
    type: integer
  X-Rate-Limit-Reset:
    description: The number of seconds left in the current period
    type: integer
```

Response with no return value:

```js
{
  "description": "object created"
}
```

```yaml
description: object created
```

#### <a name="headersObject"></a>Headers Object
Lists the headers that can be sent as part of a response.

##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="headersName"></a>{name} | [Header Object](#headerObject) | The name of the property corresponds to the name of the header. The value describes the type of the header.

##### Headers Object Example

Rate-limit headers:

```js
{
    "X-Rate-Limit-Limit": {
        "description": "The number of allowed requests in the current period",
        "type": "integer"
    },
    "X-Rate-Limit-Remaining": {
        "description": "The number of remaining requests in the current period",
        "type": "integer"
    },
    "X-Rate-Limit-Reset": {
        "description": "The number of seconds left in the current period",
        "type": "integer"
    }
}
```

```yaml
X-Rate-Limit-Limit:
  description: The number of allowed requests in the current period
  type: integer
X-Rate-Limit-Remaining:
  description: The number of remaining requests in the current period
  type: integer
X-Rate-Limit-Reset:
  description: The number of seconds left in the current period
  type: integer
```

#### <a name="exampleObject"></a>Example Object

Allows sharing examples for operation requests and responses.

##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="exampleMediaType"></a>{[media type](#mediaTypes)} | Any | The name of the property MUST be one of the Operation `produces` values (either implicit or inherited). The value SHOULD be an example of what such a response would look like. 

##### Example Object Example

Example request or response for application/json media type of a Pet data type:

```js
{
  "application/json": {
    "name": "Puma",
    "type": "Dog",
    "color": "Black",
    "gender": "Female",
    "breed": "Mixed"
  }
}
```

```yaml
application/json:
  name: Puma
  type: Dog
  color: Black
  gender: Female
  breed: Mixed
```

#### <a name="linksObject"></a>Links Object
The links object represents a set of possible design-time links for a response.
The presence of a link does not guarantee the caller's ability to successfully call invoke it, rather it provides a known relationship and traversal mechanism between responses and other operations.

As opposed to _dynamic_ links--that is, links provided **in** the response payload, the OAS linking mechanism does not require that link information be provided in a specific response format at runtime.

For computing links, and providing instructions to execute them, a mechanism is defined for accessing values in a response and using them as variables while invoking the linked operation.

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="referenceRef"></a>$ref | `string` | If present, a reference to another Links Object.  Note, the presence of `$ref` in the Links Object will cause all _Patterned Objects_ to be ignored. 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="linkName"></a>link name | [Link Object](#linkObject) | A short name for the link, following the naming constraints of the <a href="#definitionsName">definitions name</a>.
The link shall reference a single Link Object, or a JSON Reference to a single link object


### Link Object
The `Link Object` is responsible for defining a possible operation based on a single response.

Field Name  |  Type  | Description
---|:---:|---
href        | url    | a relative or absolute URL to a linked resource definition. This field is mutually exclusive with the `operationId` field.
url         | url    | a relative or absolute URL representing the target location for the link operation.  This is used to override the `{scheme}://{host}/{basePath}` defined at the global level for the linked operation.
operationId | string | the name of an _existing_, resolvable OAS operation, as defined with a unique `operationId`.  This field is mutually exclusive with the `href` field.  Relative `href` values _may_ be used to locate an existing Operation Object in the OAS.
parameters  | Link Parameters Object | an Object representing parameters to pass to an operation as specified with `operationId` or identified via `href`.
headers     | Link Headers Object    | an Object representing headers to pass to the linked resource.
description | string | a description of the link, supports [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/).
^x-         | Any    | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

Locating a linked resource may be performed by either a `href` or `operationId`.
In the case of an `operationId`, it must be unique and resolved in the scope of the OAS document.
Because of the potential for name clashes, consider the `href` syntax as the preferred method for specifications with external references.

When the `url` attribute is provided, the target host may be overridden by the value provided.  For example:

```
components:
  links:
    UserRepositories:
      operationId: getRepositoriesByOwner
      url: $responseHeaders.link
  definitions:
    user:
      type: object
```

will extract the URL from the response header named `link`.  If an absolute URL is provided, it will be used instead of the server / path provided in the target operation.  Parameters _may_ be provided as well.  If a `path` parameter is provided, it shall be ignored unless the `url` value contains a matching location for substitution.  If query parameters are provided in the `url` value, they will be interpreted per the operation definition, and the absence of a required query parameter will result in an invalid request.

When a relative path is provided in the `url` attribute, the host defined in the specification will be used.

#### <a name="responsePayload"></a>Response Payload Values

Payload values are only available in parseable response payloads which match the advertised media-type.
In all cases, if a value does _not_ exist, the parameter will be considered a `null` value (as opposed to an empty value) and _not_ passed as a parameter to the linked resource.
In cases where a value is required, and a parameter is not supplied, the client _may_ choose to not follow the link definition. 

### Example

Response payload:
```json
{
    "id": "df71a505-07bc-458a-a5c0-73c0340d1ec7",
    "firstname": "Ash",
    "lastname": "Williams"
}
```

Payload Variables:
```yaml
id: df71a505-07bc-458a-a5c0-73c0340d1ec7
firstname: Ash
lastname: Williams
missingValue: null
```

In situations where variables appear in an array, an array of variables will be extracted.
For example:

```json
[
    { "color": "red" },
    { "color": "green" },
    { "color": "blue" }
]
```

will be extracted as such:

```json
color: ["red", "green", "blue"]
```

The variables generated can be used in locations prescribed by the definition.


### Variable substitution
In all cases, _variables_ from request and responses may be substituted for link generation.
The table below designates the source of the substitution value and the syntax for accessing it:

Source Location | reference identifier | example value | example reference | notes
---|:---|:---|:---|:---
HTTP Method            | `$method`         | `/users/{$method}`                | The allowable values for the `$method` will be those for the HTTP operation 
Requested content type | `$accepts`        | `/users/3?format={$accepts}`      |  
Request parameter      | `$request`        | `/users/{$request.id}`            | Request parameters must be declared in the `parameters` section for the operation or they cannot be used in substitution.  This includes request headers
Request body           | `$requestBody`    | `/users/{$requestBody.user.uuid}` | For operations which accept payloads, references may be made to portions of the `requestBody` or the entire body itself
Request URL            | `$url`            | `/track?url={$url}`               | 
Response value         | `$response`       | `{$response.uuid}`                | Only the payload in the response can be accessed with the `$response` syntax
Response header        | `$responseHeader` | `{$responseHeader.Server}`        | Single header values only are available.

From the request, the `parameter`s used in calling the operation are made available through the `$request` syntax.
For responses, the response payload may be used with the `$response` syntax.
For both requests and responses, values will be substituted in the link in sections designated with the `$request` or `$response` keyword, surrounded by curly brackets `{}`. 

### Request parameter example
Computing a link from a request operation like such:

```yaml
paths:
  /users/{id}:
    parameters:
    - name: id
      in: path
      required: true
      description: the user identifier, as userId or username
      schema:
        type: string
    responses:
      200:
        description: the user being returned
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            uuid: the unique user id
              type: string
              format: uuid
```

Can be used in a link like this:

```yaml
Addresses:
  href: '/users/{$request.id}/department'
```

Where the `$request.id` is the value passed in the request to `/users/{id}`.
For a `id` value of `10101110`, the generated link would be:

```yaml
href: '/users/10101110/department'
```

### Response payload example

```yaml
Addresses:
  href: '/users/{$response.uuid}/address'
```

Where the `$response.uuid` from the example above would yield the target:


```yaml
href: '/users/df71a505-07bc-458a-a5c0-73c0340d1ec7/address'
```

And the array example:

```yaml
ColorSelection:
  href: 'http://colors.my-server.com/colors/{$response.color}'
```

Would produce the following links:

```yaml
href: 'http://colors.my-server.com/colors/red'
href: 'http://colors.my-server.com/colors/green'
href: 'http://colors.my-server.com/colors/blue'
```

As with all links, it at the the clients' discretion to follow them, and permissions and the ability to make a successful call to that link is not guaranteed soley by the existance of a relationship.


### Example

The example below shows how relationships in the BitBucket API can be represented with the proposed OAI link scheme.  This example uses `operationId` values to link responses to possible operations.

```yaml
paths: 
  /2.0/users/{username}: 
    get: 
      operationId: getUserByName
      parameters: 
      - name: username
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      responses: 
        200: 
          description: The User 
          schema: 
            $ref: '#/components/definitions/user'
          links:
            userRepositories:
              $ref: '#/components/links/UserRepositories'
  /2.0/repositories/{username}:
    get:
      operationId: getRepositoriesByOwner
      parameters:
        - name: username
          type: string
          in: path
          required: true
      responses:
        200:
          description: repositories owned by the supplied user
          schema:
            type: array
            items:
              $ref: '#/components/definitions/repository'
          links:
            userRepository:
              $ref: '#/components/links/UserRepository'
  /2.0/repositories/{username}/{slug}: 
    get: 
      operationId: getRepository
      parameters: 
        - name: username
          type: string
          in: path
          required: true
        - name: slug
          type: string
          in: path
          required: true
      responses: 
        200:
          description: The repository 
          schema: 
            $ref: '#/components/definitions/repository'
          links:
            repositoryPullRequests:
              $ref: '#/components/links/RepositoryPullRequests'
  /2.0/repositories/{username}/{slug}/pullrequests: 
    get: 
      operationId: getPullRequestsByRepository
      parameters: 
      - name: username
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: slug
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: state
        type: string
        in: query
        enum: 
          - open
          - merged
          - declined
      responses: 
        200: 
          description: an array of pull request objects
          schema: 
            type: array
            items: 
              $ref: '#/components/definitions/pullrequest'
  /2.0/repositories/{username}/{slug}/pullrequests/{pid}: 
    get: 
      operationId: getPullRequestsById
      parameters: 
      - name: username
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: slug
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: pid
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      responses: 
        200: 
          description: a pull request object
          schema: 
            $ref: '#/components/definitions/pullrequest'
          links:
            $ref: '#/components/links/PullRequestMerge'
  /2.0/repositories/{username}/{slug}/pullrequests/{pid}/merge: 
    post: 
      operationId: mergePullRequest
      parameters: 
      - name: username
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: slug
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      - name: pid
        type: string
        in: path
        required: true
      responses: 
        204:
          description: the PR was successfully merged
components:
  links:
    UserRepositories:
      # returns array of '#/components/definitions/repository'
      operationId: getRepositoriesByOwner
      parameters:
        username: $response.username
    UserRepository:
      # returns '#/components/definitions/repository'
      operationId: getRepository
      parameters:
        username: $response.owner.username
        slug: $response.slug
    RepositoryPullRequests:
      # returns '#/components/definitions/pullrequest'
      operationId: getPullRequestsByRepository
        params: 
          username: $response.owner.username
          slug: $response.slug
    PullRequestMerge:
      # executes /2.0/repositories/{username}/{slug}/pullrequests/{pid}/merge
      operationId: mergePullRequest
      parameters:
        username: $response.user.username # Should be $response.author.username?
        slug: $response.repository.slug
        pid: $response.id
  definitions: 
    user: 
      type: object
      properties: 
        username: 
          type: string
        uuid: 
          type: string
    repository: 
      type: object
      properties: 
        slug: 
          type: string
        owner: 
          $ref: '#/components/definitions/user'
    pullrequest: 
      type: object
      properties: 
        id: 
          type: integer
        title: 
          type: string
        repository: 
          $ref: '#/components/definitions/repository'
        author: 
          $ref: '#/components/definitions/user'
```

As references to `operationId` may not be possible (the `operationId` is an optional value), references may also be made through a relative `href`:

```yaml
components:
  links:
    UserRepositories:
      # returns array of '#/components/definitions/repository'
      href: '/2.0/repositories/{$response.username}'
```

or an absolute `href`:

```yaml
components:
  links:
    UserRepositories:
      # returns array of '#/components/definitions/repository'
      href: 'https://na2.gigantic-server.com/2.0/repositories/{$response.username}'
```


### Link Parameters
Using the `operationId` to reference an operation in the definition has many benefits, including the ability to define media-type options, security requirements, response and error payloads.
Many operations require parameters to be passed, and these may be dynamic depending on the response itself.

To specify parameters required by the operation, we can use a **Link Parameters Object**.
This object contains parameter names along with static or dynamic values:

```yaml
paths:
  /user/{username}: # ...
  /user/{username}/commits:
    get:
      operationId: userCommitHistory
      parameters:
      - name: username
        in: path
        type: string
        required: true
      - name: page
        type: integer
        format: int32
        required: true
      responses: { ... }
components:
  links:
    UserCommitHistory:
      operationId: userCommitHistory
      parameters:
        username: $response.user.username
        page: 0
```

In the above, the link for `UserCommitHistory` points to the operation `getUserCommitHistory`, and passes the `username` value from the response payload as well as the static scalar value `0`.

#### <a name="headerObject"></a>Header Object

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="headerDescription"></a>description | `string` | A short description of the header.
<a name="headerType"></a>type | `string` | **Required.** The type of the object. The value MUST be one of `"string"`, `"number"`, `"integer"`, `"boolean"`, or `"array"`.
<a name="headerFormat"></a>format | `string` | The extending format for the previously mentioned [`type`](#stType). See [Data Type Formats](#dataTypeFormat) for further details.
<a name="headerItems"></a>items | [Items Object](#itemsObject) | **Required if [`type`](#stType) is "array".** Describes the type of items in the array.
<a name="headerCollectionFormat"></a>collectionFormat | `string` | Determines the format of the array if type array is used. Possible values are: <ul><li>`csv` - comma separated values `foo,bar`. <li>`ssv` - space separated values `foo bar`. <li>`tsv` - tab separated values `foo\tbar`. <li>`pipes` - pipe separated values <code>foo&#124;bar</code>. </ul> Default value is `csv`.
<a name="headerDefault"></a>default | * | Declares the value of the header that the server will use if none is provided. (Note: "default" has no meaning for required headers.) See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor101. Unlike JSON Schema this value MUST conform to the defined [`type`](#headerDefault) for the header.
<a name="headerMaximum"></a>maximum | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor17.
<a name="headerMaximum"></a>exclusiveMaximum | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor17.
<a name="headerMinimum"></a>minimum | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor21.
<a name="headerExclusiveMinimum"></a>exclusiveMinimum | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor21.
<a name="headerMaxLength"></a>maxLength | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor26.
<a name="headerMinLength"></a>minLength | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor29.
<a name="headerPattern"></a>pattern | `string` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor33.
<a name="headerMaxItems"></a>maxItems | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor42.
<a name="headerMinItems"></a>minItems | `integer` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor45.
<a name="headerUniqueItems"></a>uniqueItems | `boolean` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor49.
<a name="headerEnum"></a>enum | [*] | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor76.
<a name="headerMultipleOf"></a>multipleOf | `number` | See http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html#anchor14.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="headerExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Header Object Example

A simple header with of an integer type:

```js
{
  "description": "The number of allowed requests in the current period",
  "type": "integer"
}
```

```yaml
description: The number of allowed requests in the current period
type: integer
```

#### <a name="tagObject"></a>Tag Object

Allows adding meta data to a single tag that is used by the [Operation Object](#operationObject).
It is not mandatory to have a Tag Object per tag used there.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="tagName"></a>name | `string` | **Required.** The name of the tag.
<a name="tagDescription"></a>description | `string` | A short description for the tag. [CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation.
<a name="tagExternalDocs"></a>externalDocs | [External Documentation Object](#externalDocumentationObject) | Additional external documentation for this tag.

##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="tagExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Tag Object Example

```js
{
	"name": "pet",
	"description": "Pets operations"
}
```

```yaml
name: pet
description: Pets operations
```

#### <a name="examplesObject"></a>Examples Object

Anywhere an `example` may be given, allow a $ref object.
This does mean that `example`, structurally, can be either a string primitive or an object, like `additionalProperties`.

In locations where the field being provided an `example` is a scalar value _or_ has it's content-type definition determined by a higher-level construct (a response payload, for example, uses the `produces` attribute to select the correct message format), the plural `examples` shall be used, and the payload format be specified as a key to the example.

In all cases, the payload is expected to be compatible with the type schema for the value that it is accompanying.
Tooling Specifications may choose to validate compatibility automatically, and reject the example value(s) if they are not compatible.

```yaml
# in a model
definitions:
  properties:
    name:
      type: string
      example:
        $ref: http://foo.bar#/examples/name-example

# in a request body, note the plural `examples` as the content-type is set by `consumes`:
	requestBody:
      schema:
        $ref: '#/definitions/Address'
      examples:
        'application/json':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.json'
        'application/xml':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.xml'
        'text/plain':
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.txt'
        default:
          $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.whatever'

# in a parameter

  parameters:
    - name: 'zip'
      in: 'query'
      type: 'string'
      format: 'zip'
      example: 
        $ref: 'http://foo.bar#/examples/zip-example'
# in a response, note the plural `examples`:
  responses:
    200:
      description: your car appointment has been booked
      schema:
        $ref: '#/definitions/SuccessResponse'
      examples:
        'application/json':
          $ref: http://foo.bar#/examples/address-example.json
```

#### <a name="referenceObject"></a>Reference Object

A simple object to allow referencing other definitions in the specification.
It can be used to reference parameters and responses that are defined at the top level for reuse.

The Reference Object is a [JSON Reference](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-pbryan-zyp-json-ref-02) that uses a [JSON Pointer](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) as its value.
For this specification, only [canonical dereferencing](http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-core.html#anchor27) is supported.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="referenceRef"></a>$ref | `string` | **Required.** The reference string. 

##### Reference Object Example

```js
{
	"$ref": "#/definitions/Pet"
}
```

```yaml
$ref: '#/definitions/Pet'
```

##### Relative Schema File Example
```js
{
  "$ref": "Pet.json"
}
```

```yaml
$ref: 'Pet.yaml'
```

##### Relative Files With Embedded Schema Example
```js
{
  "$ref": "definitions.json#/Pet"
}
```

```yaml
$ref: 'definitions.yaml#/Pet'
```

#### <a name="schemaObject"></a>Schema Object

The Schema Object allows the definition of input and output data types.
These types can be objects, but also primitives and arrays.
This object is based on the [JSON Schema Specification Draft 4](http://json-schema.org/) and uses a predefined subset of it.
On top of this subset, there are extensions provided by this specification to allow for more complete documentation.

Further information about the properties can be found in [JSON Schema Core](http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-core.html) and [JSON Schema Validation](http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html).
Unless stated otherwise, the property definitions follow the JSON Schema specification as referenced here.

The following properties are taken directly from the JSON Schema definition and follow the same specifications:
- $ref - As a [JSON Reference](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-pbryan-zyp-json-ref-03)
- format (See [Data Type Formats](#dataTypeFormat) for further details)
- title
- description ([CommonMark syntax](http://spec.commonmark.org/) can be used for rich text representation)
- default (Unlike JSON Schema, the value MUST conform to the defined type for the Schema Object)
- multipleOf
- maximum
- exclusiveMaximum
- minimum
- exclusiveMinimum
- maxLength
- minLength
- pattern
- maxItems
- minItems
- uniqueItems
- maxProperties
- minProperties
- required
- enum
- type

The following properties are taken from the JSON Schema definition but their definitions were adjusted to the OpenAPI Specification.
Their definition is the same as the one from JSON Schema, only where the original definition references the JSON Schema definition, the [Schema Object](#schemaObject) definition is used instead.
- items
- allOf
- properties
- additionalProperties

Other than the JSON Schema subset fields, the following fields may be used for further schema documentation.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="schemaDiscriminator"></a>discriminator | `string` | Adds support for polymorphism. The discriminator is the schema property name that is used to differentiate between other schema that inherit this schema. The property name used MUST be defined at this schema and it MUST be in the `required` property list. When used, the value MUST be the name of this schema or any schema that inherits it.
<a name="schemaReadOnly"></a>readOnly | `boolean` | Relevant only for Schema `"properties"` definitions. Declares the property as "read only". This means that it MAY be sent as part of a response but MUST NOT be sent as part of the request. Properties marked as `readOnly` being `true` SHOULD NOT be in the `required` list of the defined schema. Default value is `false`.
<a name="schemaXml"></a>xml | [XML Object](#xmlObject) | This MAY be used only on properties schemas. It has no effect on root schemas. Adds Additional metadata to describe the XML representation format of this property.
<a name="schemaExternalDocs"></a>externalDocs | [External Documentation Object](#externalDocumentationObject) | Additional external documentation for this schema. 
<a name="schemaExample"></a>example | Any | A free-form property to include an example of an instance for this schema.
<a name="schemaDeprecated"></a> deprecated | `boolean` | Specifies that a schema is deprecated and should be transitioned out of usage.

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="schemaExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

###### Composition and Inheritance (Polymorphism)

The OpenAPI Specification allows combining and extending model definitions using the `allOf` property of JSON Schema, in effect offering model composition.
`allOf` takes in an array of object definitions that are validated *independently* but together compose a single object. 

While composition offers model extensibility, it does not imply a hierarchy between the models.
To support polymorphism, OpenAPI Specification adds the support of the `discriminator` field.
When used, the `discriminator` will be the name of the property used to decide which schema definition is used to validate the structure of the model.
As such, the `discriminator` field MUST be a required field.
The value of the chosen property has to be the friendly name given to the model under the `definitions` property.
As such, inline schema definitions, which do not have a given id, *cannot* be used in polymorphism.

###### XML Modeling

The [xml](#schemaXml) property allows extra definitions when translating the JSON definition to XML.
The [XML Object](#xmlObject) contains additional information about the available options.

##### Schema Object Examples

###### Primitive Sample

Unlike previous versions of Swagger, OpenAPI Schema definitions can be used to describe primitive and arrays as well.

```js
{
    "type": "string",
    "format": "email"
}
```

```yaml
type: string
format: email
```

###### Simple Model

```js
{
  "type": "object",
  "required": [
    "name"
  ],
  "properties": {
    "name": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "address": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/Address"
    },
    "age": {
      "type": "integer",
      "format": "int32",
      "minimum": 0
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
type: object
required:
- name
properties:
  name:
    type: string
  address:
    $ref: '#/definitions/Address'
  age:
    type: integer
    format: int32
    minimum: 0
```

###### Model with Map/Dictionary Properties

For a simple string to string mapping:

```js
{
  "type": "object",
  "additionalProperties": {
    "type": "string"
  }
}
```

```yaml
type: object
additionalProperties:
  type: string
```

For a string to model mapping:

```js
{
  "type": "object",
  "additionalProperties": {
    "$ref": "#/definitions/ComplexModel"
  }
}
```

```yaml
type: object
additionalProperties:
  $ref: '#/definitions/ComplexModel'
```

###### Model with Example

```js
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "id": {
      "type": "integer",
      "format": "int64"
    },
    "name": {
      "type": "string"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "name"
  ],
  "example": {
    "name": "Puma",
    "id": 1
  }
}
```

```yaml
type: object
properties:
  id:
    type: integer
    format: int64
  name:
    type: string
required:
- name
example:
  name: Puma
  id: 1
```

###### Models with Composition

```js
{
  "definitions": {
    "ErrorModel": {
      "type": "object",
      "required": [
        "message",
        "code"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "message": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "code": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 100,
          "maximum": 600
        }
      }
    },
    "ExtendedErrorModel": {
      "allOf": [
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/ErrorModel"
        },
        {
          "type": "object",
          "required": [
            "rootCause"
          ],
          "properties": {
            "rootCause": {
              "type": "string"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
definitions:
  ErrorModel:
    type: object
    required:
    - message
    - code
    properties:
      message:
        type: string
      code:
        type: integer
        minimum: 100
        maximum: 600
  ExtendedErrorModel:
    allOf:
    - $ref: '#/definitions/ErrorModel'
    - type: object
      required:
      - rootCause
      properties:
        rootCause:
          type: string
```

###### Models with Polymorphism Support

```js
{
  "definitions": {
    "Pet": {
      "type": "object",
      "discriminator": "petType",
      "properties": {
        "name": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "petType": {
          "type": "string"
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "name",
        "petType"
      ]
    },
    "Cat": {
      "description": "A representation of a cat",
      "allOf": [
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/Pet"
        },
        {
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "huntingSkill": {
              "type": "string",
              "description": "The measured skill for hunting",
              "default": "lazy",
              "enum": [
                "clueless",
                "lazy",
                "adventurous",
                "aggressive"
              ]
            }
          },
          "required": [
            "huntingSkill"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "Dog": {
      "description": "A representation of a dog",
      "allOf": [
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/Pet"
        },
        {
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "packSize": {
              "type": "integer",
              "format": "int32",
              "description": "the size of the pack the dog is from",
              "default": 0,
              "minimum": 0
            }
          },
          "required": [
            "packSize"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
definitions:
  Pet:
    type: object
    discriminator: petType
    properties:
      name:
        type: string
      petType:
        type: string
    required:
    - name
    - petType
  Cat:
    description: A representation of a cat
    allOf:
    - $ref: '#/definitions/Pet'
    - type: object
      properties:
        huntingSkill:
          type: string
          description: The measured skill for hunting
          default: lazy
          enum:
          - clueless
          - lazy
          - adventurous
          - aggressive
      required:
      - huntingSkill
  Dog:
    description: A representation of a dog
    allOf:
    - $ref: '#/definitions/Pet'
    - type: object
      properties:
        packSize:
          type: integer
          format: int32
          description: the size of the pack the dog is from
          default: 0
          minimum: 0
      required:
      - packSize
```

#### <a name="xmlObject"></a>XML Object

A metadata object that allows for more fine-tuned XML model definitions.

When using arrays, XML element names are *not* inferred (for singular/plural forms) and the `name` property should be used to add that information.
See examples for expected behavior.

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="xmlName"></a>name | `string` | Replaces the name of the element/attribute used for the described schema property. When defined within the Items Object (`items`), it will affect the name of the individual XML elements within the list. When defined alongside `type` being `array` (outside the `items`), it will affect the wrapping element and only if `wrapped` is `true`. If `wrapped` is `false`, it will be ignored.
<a name="xmlNamespace"></a>namespace | `string` | The URL of the namespace definition. Value SHOULD be in the form of a URL.
<a name="xmlPrefix"></a>prefix | `string` | The prefix to be used for the [name](#xmlName).
<a name="xmlAttribute"></a>attribute | `boolean` | Declares whether the property definition translates to an attribute instead of an element. Default value is `false`.
<a name="xmlWrapped"></a>wrapped | `boolean` | MAY be used only for an array definition. Signifies whether the array is wrapped (for example, `<books><book/><book/></books>`) or unwrapped (`<book/><book/>`). Default value is `false`. The definition takes effect only when defined alongside `type` being `array` (outside the `items`).

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="xmlExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### XML Object Examples

The examples of the XML object definitions are included inside a property definition of a [Schema Object](#schemaObject) with a sample of the XML representation of it.

###### No XML Element

Basic string property:

```js
{
    "animals": {
        "type": "string"
    }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: string
```

```xml
<animals>...</animals>
```

Basic string array property ([`wrapped`](#xmlWrapped) is `false` by default):

```js
{
    "animals": {
        "type": "array",
        "items": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
```

```xml
<animals>...</animals>
<animals>...</animals>
<animals>...</animals>
```

###### XML Name Replacement

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "string",
    "xml": {
      "name": "animal"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: string
  xml:
    name: animal
```

```xml
<animal>...</animal>
```


###### XML Attribute, Prefix and Namespace

In this example, a full model definition is shown.

```js
{
  "Person": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "id": {
        "type": "integer",
        "format": "int32",
        "xml": {
          "attribute": true
        }
      },
      "name": {
        "type": "string",
        "xml": {
          "namespace": "http://swagger.io/schema/sample",
          "prefix": "sample"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
Person:
  type: object
  properties:
    id:
      type: integer
      format: int32
      xml:
        attribute: true
    name:
      type: string
      xml:
        namespace: http://swagger.io/schema/sample
        prefix: sample
```

```xml
<Person id="123">
    <sample:name xmlns:sample="http://swagger.io/schema/sample">example</sample:name>
</Person>
```

###### XML Arrays

Changing the element names:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string",
      "xml": {
        "name": "animal"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
    xml:
      name: animal
```

```xml
<animal>value</animal>
<animal>value</animal>
```

The external `name` property has no effect on the XML:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string",
      "xml": {
        "name": "animal"
      }
    },
    "xml": {
      "name": "aliens"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
    xml:
      name: animal
  xml:
    name: aliens
```

```xml
<animal>value</animal>
<animal>value</animal>
```

Even when the array is wrapped, if no name is explicitly defined, the same name will be used both internally and externally:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "xml": {
      "wrapped": true
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
  xml:
    wrapped: true
```

```xml
<animals>
  <animals>value</animals>
  <animals>value</animals>
</animals>
```

To overcome the above example, the following definition can be used:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string",
      "xml": {
        "name": "animal"
      }
    },
    "xml": {
      "wrapped": true
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
    xml:
      name: animal
  xml:
    wrapped: true
```

```xml
<animals>
  <animal>value</animal>
  <animal>value</animal>
</animals>
```

Affecting both internal and external names:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string",
      "xml": {
        "name": "animal"
      }
    },
    "xml": {
      "name": "aliens",
      "wrapped": false
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
    xml:
      name: animal
  xml:
    name: aliens
    wrapped: false
```

```xml
<aliens>
  <animal>value</animal>
  <animal>value</animal>
</aliens>
```

If we change the external element but not the internal ones:

```js
{
  "animals": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "xml": {
      "name": "aliens",
      "wrapped": true
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
animals:
  type: array
  items:
    type: string
  xml:
    name: aliens
    wrapped: true
```

```xml
<aliens>
  <aliens>value</aliens>
  <aliens>value</aliens>
</aliens>
```

#### <a name="definitionsObject"></a>Definitions Object

An object to hold data types that can be consumed and produced by operations.
These data types can be primitives, arrays or models.

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="definitionsName"></a>{name} | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) | A single definition, mapping a "name" to the schema it defines.
The following characters are legal in the `definitionsName`: `a-zA-Z0-9.-_\`.  All other characters, including extended ASCII characters, are not legal in the `definitionsName`.  The name may be used to namespace the definitions--it is the tooling Specification's job to ensure that the namespace is honored.

Examples:

```
User
User_1
User_Name
user-name
my.org.User
my\org\User
```

##### Definitions Object Example

```js
{
  "Category": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "id": {
        "type": "integer",
        "format": "int64"
      },
      "name": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "Tag": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "id": {
        "type": "integer",
        "format": "int64"
      },
      "name": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
Category:
  type: object
  properties:
    id:
      type: integer
      format: int64
    name:
      type: string
Tag:
  type: object
  properties:
    id:
      type: integer
      format: int64
    name:
      type: string
```

#### <a name="parametersDefinitionsObject"></a>Parameters Definitions Object

An object to hold parameters to be reused across operations.
Parameter definitions can be referenced to the ones defined here.

This does *not* define global operation parameters.

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="pdName"></a>{name} | [Parameter Object](#parameterObject) | A single parameter definition, mapping a "name" to the parameter it defines.

##### Parameters Definition Object Example

```js
{
  "skipParam": {
    "name": "skip",
    "in": "query",
    "description": "number of items to skip",
    "required": true,
    "type": "integer",
    "format": "int32"
  },
  "limitParam": {
    "name": "limit",
    "in": "query",
    "description": "max records to return",
    "required": true,
    "type": "integer",
    "format": "int32"
  }
}
```

```yaml
skipParam:
  name: skip
  in: query
  description: number of items to skip
  required: true
  type: integer
  format: int32
limitParam:
  name: limit
  in: query
  description: max records to return
  required: true
  type: integer
  format: int32
```


#### <a name="responsesDefinitionsObject"></a>Responses Definitions Object

An object to hold responses to be reused across operations.
Response definitions can be referenced to the ones defined here.

This does *not* define global operation responses.

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="rdName"></a>{name} | [Response Object](#responseObject) | A single response definition, mapping a "name" to the response it defines.

##### Responses Definitions Object Example

```js
{
  "NotFound": {
    "description": "Entity not found."
  },
  "IllegalInput": {
  	"description": "Illegal input for operation."
  },
  "GeneralError": {
  	"description": "General Error",
  	"schema": {
  		"$ref": "#/definitions/GeneralError"
  	}
  }
}
```

```yaml
NotFound:
  description: Entity not found.
IllegalInput:
  description: Illegal input for operation.
GeneralError:
  description: General Error
  schema:
    $ref: '#/definitions/GeneralError'
```

#### <a name="securityDefinitionsObject"></a>Security Definitions Object

A declaration of the security schemes available to be used in the specification.
This does not enforce the security schemes on the operations and only serves to provide the relevant details for each scheme.

##### Patterned Fields
Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="sdName"></a>{name} | [Security Scheme Object](#securitySchemeObject) | A single security scheme definition, mapping a "name" to the scheme it defines.

##### Security Definitions Object Example

```js
{
  "api_key": {
    "type": "apiKey",
    "name": "api_key",
    "in": "header"
  },
  "petstore_auth": {
    "type": "oauth2",
    "authorizationUrl": "http://swagger.io/api/oauth/dialog",
    "flow": "implicit",
    "scopes": {
      "write:pets": "modify pets in your account",
      "read:pets": "read your pets"
    }
  }
}
```

```yaml
api_key:
  type: apiKey
  name: api_key
  in: header
petstore_auth:
  type: oauth2
  authorizationUrl: http://swagger.io/api/oauth/dialog
  flow: implicit
  scopes:
    write:pets: modify pets in your account
    read:pets: read your pets
```

#### <a name="securitySchemeObject"></a>Security Scheme Object

Allows the definition of a security scheme that can be used by the operations.
Supported schemes are basic authentication, an API key (either as a header or as a query parameter) and OAuth2's common flows (implicit, password, application and access code).

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Validity | Description
---|:---:|---|---
<a name="securitySchemeType"></a>type | `string` | Any | **Required.** The type of the security scheme. Valid values are `"basic"`, `"apiKey"` or `"oauth2"`.
<a name="securitySchemeDescription"></a>description | `string` | Any | A short description for security scheme.
<a name="securitySchemeName"></a>name | `string` | `apiKey` | **Required.** The name of the header or query parameter to be used.
<a name="securitySchemeIn"></a>in | `string` | `apiKey` | **Required** The location of the API key. Valid values are `"query"` or `"header"`.
<a name="securitySchemeFlow"></a>flow | `string` | `oauth2` | **Required.** The flow used by the OAuth2 security scheme. Valid values are `"implicit"`, `"password"`, `"application"` or `"accessCode"`.
<a name="securitySchemeAuthorizationUrl"></a>authorizationUrl | `string` | `oauth2` (`"implicit"`, `"accessCode"`) | **Required.** The authorization URL to be used for this flow. This SHOULD be in the form of a URL.
<a name="securitySchemeTokenUrl"></a>tokenUrl | `string` | `oauth2` (`"password"`, `"application"`, `"accessCode"`) | **Required.** The token URL to be used for this flow. This SHOULD be in the form of a URL.
<a name="securitySchemeScopes"></a>scopes | [Scopes Object](#scopesObject) | `oauth2` | **Required.** The available scopes for the OAuth2 security scheme.

##### Patterned Fields

Field Name | Type | Description 
---|:---:|---
<a name="securitySchemeExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Security Scheme Object Example

###### Basic Authentication Sample

```js
{
  "type": "basic"
}
```

```yaml
type: basic
```

###### API Key Sample

```js
{
  "type": "apiKey",
  "name": "api_key",
  "in": "header"
}
```

```yaml
type: apiKey
name: api_key
in: header
```

###### Implicit OAuth2 Sample

```js
{
  "type": "oauth2",
  "authorizationUrl": "http://swagger.io/api/oauth/dialog",
  "flow": "implicit",
  "scopes": {
    "write:pets": "modify pets in your account",
    "read:pets": "read your pets"
  }
}
```

```yaml
type: oauth2
authorizationUrl: http://swagger.io/api/oauth/dialog
flow: implicit
scopes:
  write:pets: modify pets in your account
  read:pets: read your pets
```

#### <a name="scopesObject"></a>Scopes Object

Lists the available scopes for an OAuth2 security scheme.

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="scopesName"></a>{name} | `string` | Maps between a name of a scope to a short description of it (as the value of the property).

##### Patterned Objects 

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="scopesExtensions"></a>^x- | Any | Allows extensions to the OpenAPI Schema. The field name MUST begin with `x-`, for example, `x-internal-id`. The value can be `null`, a primitive, an array or an object. See [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions) for further details.

##### Scopes Object Example

```js
{
  "write:pets": "modify pets in your account",
  "read:pets": "read your pets"
}
```

```yaml
write:pets: modify pets in your account
read:pets: read your pets
```

#### <a name="securityRequirementObject"></a>Security Requirement Object

Lists the required security schemes to execute this operation.
The object can have multiple security schemes declared in it which are all required (that is, there is a logical AND between the schemes).

The name used for each property MUST correspond to a security scheme declared in the [Security Definitions](#securityDefinitionsObject).

##### Patterned Fields

Field Pattern | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="securityRequirementsName"></a>{name} | [`string`] | Each name must correspond to a security scheme which is declared in the [Security Definitions](#securityDefinitions). If the security scheme is of type `"oauth2"`, then the value is a list of scope names required for the execution. For other security scheme types, the array MUST be empty.

##### Security Requirement Object Examples

###### Non-OAuth2 Security Requirement

```js
{
  "api_key": []
}
```

```yaml
api_key: []
```

###### OAuth2 Security Requirement

```js
{
  "petstore_auth": [
    "write:pets",
    "read:pets"
  ]
}
```

```yaml
petstore_auth:
- write:pets
- read:pets
```

### <a name="specificationExtensions"></a>Specification Extensions

While the OpenAPI Specification tries to accommodate most use cases, additional data can be added to extend the specification at certain points.

The extensions properties are always prefixed by `"x-"` and can have any valid JSON format value.

The extensions may or may not be supported by the available tooling, but those may be extended as well to add requested support (if tools are internal or open-sourced).

### <a name="securityFiltering"></a>Security Filtering

Some objects in the OpenAPI Specification may be declared and remain empty, or completely be removed, even though they are inherently the core of the API documentation. 

The reasoning behind it is to allow an additional layer of access control over the documentation itself.
While not part of the specification itself, certain libraries may choose to allow access to parts of the documentation based on some form of authentication/authorization.

Two examples for this:

1. The [Paths Object](#pathsObject) may be empty. It may be counterintuitive, but this may tell the viewer that they got to the right place, but can't access any documentation. They'd still have access to the [Info Object](#infoObject) which may contain additional information regarding authentication.
2. The [Path Item Object](#pathItemObject) may be empty. In this case, the viewer will be aware that the path exists, but will not be able to see any of its operations or parameters. This is different than hiding the path itself from the [Paths Object](#pathsObject) so the user will not be aware of its existence. This allows the documentation provider a finer control over what the viewer can see.
